---
title: Commands (Slash Menu)
subheading: Create a Notion-like slash menu
---

Pilot provides a `Commands` component that allows you to create a Notion-like slash menu.

It supports:

- Keyboard navigation
- Custom UI
- Custom commands
- Filtering by the current editor state

:editor-content{content="<p></p>" show-commands class="h-104"}


## Usage

The `Commands` component accepts a `commands` prop, which is an array of commands. And exposes a default slot that exposes the following properties:

- `editor`: the editor instance
- `commands`: the commands array
- `selectedIndex`: the index of the selected command
- `selectItem`: the function to select an item by index

You can create your own UI for displaying your commands, selecting them, and changing the UI for the selected command.

## Commands Array

The `Commands` component accepts a `commands` prop, which is an array of commands.

Each command is an object that contains the following properties:

- `name`: The name of the command.
- `label`: The label of the command.
- `icon`: The icon of the command.
- `command`: The command to execute.

### Built-in Commands

Pilot comes with a few built-in commands.

## Configuration

## Transitions

You can use Vue's `<Transition>` component to animate the Commands UI.

However, if you apply styles to the `Commands` root component, these might conflict with the styles from Floating UI, causing unexpected visual bugs. 

Instead, you should use a [Nested Transition](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/transition#nested-transitions-and-explicit-transition-durations) to target an element inside your default slot.

```vue
<template>
<Editor>
  <Transition
    name="fade"
    :duration="200"
  >
    <Commands
      v-if="showCommands"
      :commands="commands"
    >
      <template #default="{ commands: commandsProp, selectedIndex, selectItem }">
        <div
          class="inner <- YOUR CUSTOM CLASS"
        >
          <!-- Content  -->
        </div>
      </template>
    </Commands>
  </Transition>
</Editor>
</template>
```

Then, you can use Vue's transition classes and your class name to target the inner content. This will animate your commands without interfering with any positional styles of the Commands UI. You  also need to set the `duration` prop to at least the length of your transition to ensure that the parent element stays in the DOM. 

```css
.fade-enter-active .inner,
.fade-leave-active .inner {
  transition: all 0.2s ease;
}

.fade-enter-to .inner,
.fade-leave-from .inner {
  opacity: 1;
  scale: 1;
}

.fade-enter-from .inner,
.fade-leave-to .inner {
  opacity: 0;
  scale: 0.9;
}
```

::info{icon="i-ri:information-line"}
Learn more about [nested transitions](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/transition#nested-transitions-and-explicit-transition-durations) in Vue.
::